---
title: June 2019
permalink: /about-us/pl-epistle/2019/june-2019/
description: ""
third_nav_title: "2019"
---
### Singapore Bicentennial Roadshow at the Istana

<iframe allowfullscreen="true" height="569" width="960" frameborder="0" src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vS8KoQQLDiFWzucj0hv8_u1DKtdtTJhZpaPGaJOr1fJkPokpwKIbtHtCSoXLohZNluV-oTqB1MW1QQv/embed?start=true&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=3000"></iframe>

Paya Lebar Methodist Girls’ (Secondary) was proud to be invited by the Singapore Bicentennial Office to be one of the communities with rich histories to participate in the Singapore Bicentennial Roadshow at the Istana on 5th June 2019 as part of the Istana’s Open House festivities during the Hari Raya public holiday.  
  
PL’s Bicentennial project was aimed at capturing the rich life stories of our notable alumni that made a difference to Singapore. The focus on women and their self-determination stories was inspired by the quote from Mrs Robert Eu, then Principal of PLMGS who said “When you educate a boy, you educate a man. But when you educate a girl, you educate her family.’  
This quote became the fulcrum of the project in which Secondary 3 and 4 Elective History students embarked on.&nbsp; They systematically interviewed, documented and archived the school’s notable alumni, which epitomized the Singapore Bicentennial’s theme of women’s self-determination.  
  
These stories were then conceptualised in a visual exhibit of interlinked panels that were 2m tall and stretched over 8m wide. The exhibition entitled:&nbsp; PL’s Women of Steel: Inspiring Stories of Faith, Hope, Love and Courage drew many viewers from the public who gave positive feedback that they enjoyed the personal stories of our alumni. Madam President Yacob also visited our booth and left a comment on her Facebook post that she enjoyed the inspiring stories. The Straits Times captured this moment in a photograph the following day.  
  
Although the event is finished, the work on capturing more stories of strong inspiring women continues with the next batch of History students as part of their enriched curriculum as aspiring historians and PLites that appreciate PL’s rich historical heritage, as well as well-informed students about their world and where they come from.  
  
**Students' Reflections:**  
  
It was an enlightening experience, as it was an honour to interview the old girls of PL. Learning about their past was empowering especially when we learnt how they overcame their challenges with the help of PL teachers. It was nice to know that even back then, PL teachers were as caring as teachers currently in PL! We also learnt new historical skills during the project. We are very thankful to be able to equip ourselves with these new skills that we cannot learn in the classroom.  <br>
**_Ariane, Claire, Deanna, Yue Qian &amp; Cheyenne, Sec 4.2 &amp; 4.3_**  
  
I have learnt that our school had and has a major impact on women, through the opportunities given to excel in many different areas.&nbsp; Its holistic education teaches us that we can be more and to achieve our dreams.&nbsp; Through the interview with Mrs Barnabas, we realised that we should never underestimate ourselves, and put our talents to good use.  <br>
_**Shauna, Sec 3.3**_  
  
One important thing that I have observed and learnt is that PL plays a major role in many PL girls lives. Many of the alumni go back to the values that they have learnt in PL when making decisions in their lives. PL believes that women can do things that men can do and encourages their girls to put in their best effort in all that they do. Miss Chia inspired me with her sense of justice, to do things that is right even though everyone is against you. I am also inspired by her courage to speak up and give her opinions.  <br>
_**Hsin Rong, Sec 3.4**_